Fully Revise docs with latest API for 1.2.0 (#22)
wisp-forest/docs: docs/accessories/developer/itemstack_components.md

---
title: ItemStack Data Components
project: accessories
---

## General

> Below is the current set of available Data Components for ItemStacks that are supported with documentation about there function and format.

Reviewer: "there" -> "their"

### Attribute Modifiers

> Any ItemStack can have Attributes added onto such though the `accessories:attributes` item component with such being comprised of a list of attribute entries similar to Minecraft's default implementation. Below is an example of such:

Reviewer: "though" -> "through"

```JSON
{
    "accessories:attributes": {
        "modifiers": [
            {
                "type": "minecraft:attack_damage",
                "id": "example:increased_damage_boost",
                "amount": 1,
                "operation": "add_value",
                "slot_name": "hat",
                "is_stackable": false,
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|

> |`"type"`| Refers to the attribute type to which should be adjusted with the given modifier data either registered or a slot attribute. |

Reviewer: "to which" -> "that"

|`"id"`| The unique resource location to identify this modifier |

> |`"amount"`| The Amount of change from the modifier |

Reviewer: "Amount" -> "amount"

|`"operation"`| The type of calculation operation that should be performed out of the valid values. |

> |`"slot_name"`| The slot to which must be equipped for the effect to apply or `"any"` if it's based on where it can and can't be equipped |

Reviewer: "to which" -> "to which the accessory"

> |`"slot_name"`| The slot to which must be equipped for the effect to apply or `"any"` if it's based on where it can and can't be equipped |

Reviewer: the documentation for what "any" does in this description seems a bit unclear; I'm not sure what it's meant to mean

> |`"is_stackable"`| Indicates that if the given `"id"` passed should be appended with slot information to allow for additional copies of the attribute to function together as a compounding effect |

Reviewer: "if the" -> "the"

> |`"is_stackable"`| Indicates that the given `"id"` passed should be appended with slot information to allow for additional copies of the attribute to function together as a compounding effect |

Author: - i.e. attributes within the game being in a registry of attributes vs the slot attributes that are not found within the registry due to there dynamic nature.
- Yes, and I agree it may be best to link to Mincraft wiki.
- Possibly I guess it would be better to be seen within the table is my thought but it could be put as a foot note

### Slot Validation

> Any ItemStack can define invalid or valid slots to which it can be equipped within the `accessories:slot_validation` item component allowing you to add the ability to equip such within a slot or override current equability for an existing accessory.

Reviewer: "Any ItemStack can define invalid or valid slots to which it can be equipped using the `accessories:slot_validation` item component, allowing you to add the ability to equip the accessory within a slot or override current equipability for an existing accessory."

```JSON
{
    "accessories:slot_validation": {
        "valid_slot": [
            "hat"
        ]
        "invalid_slot": [
            "shoes"
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|

> |`"valid_slots"`| A array of string values of valid slots that such stack can be equipped into when attempted |

Reviewer: "a" -> "an"

> |`"invalid_slots"`| A array of string values of invalid slots that such stack **can not** be equipped into when attempted |

Reviewer: "a" -> "an"

### Stack Size

> To adjust the Data driven components ability to stack, you can use this component to either use the stacks max size or use a overridden size instead but such size needs to be less than the stack size or such will be used instead.

Reviewer: "Data driven" -> "data-driven"

> To adjust the Data driven components ability to stack, you can use this component to either use the stacks max size or use a overridden size instead but such size needs to be less than the stack size or such will be used instead.

Reviewer: "or such will be used instead" -> "or that will be used instead"

> To adjust the data-driven components ability to stack, you can use this component to either use the stacks max size or use a overridden size instead but such size needs to be less than the stack size or that will be used instead.

Author: I think the rewrite is better as containing an example may assist with understanding its use case. 

> Is this component always present, or is there another good use-case for use_stack_size which I am missing?

What do you mean by always present as anyone can add such to a given item to adjust this.

```JSON
{
    "accessories:stack_size": {
        "use_stack_size": false,
        "size_override": 69
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|

> |`"use_stack_size"`| Use the stacks given max size as the about allowed to stack to within Accessories |

Reviewer: "stacks" -> "stack's"

> |`"use_stack_size"`| Use the stacks given max size as the about allowed to stack to within Accessories |

Reviewer: "about" -> "amount"

                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
            {
                "id": "minecraft:emerald",
                "count": 1,
                "components": {
                    "accessories:attributes": {
                        "modifiers": [
                            {
                                "type": "minecraft:attack_speed",
                                "id": "example:increased_damage_speed",
                                "amount": 1,
                                "operation": "add_value",
                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"accessories"`| A list of `ItemStack`s that have various components and will be used to get Accessory info from when equipping the nest |

!!! warning "Nest Equitability"

>     You will either need to add the Slot Validation component to the nest or add the given item the nest is made from to the given tag for the slot using the Tag Predicate for equipping

Reviewer: "item the nest" -> "item that the nest"

>     You will either need to add the Slot Validation component to the nest or add the given item that the nest is made from to the given tag for the slot using the Tag Predicate for equipping

Author: Well just because it is an accessory nest, it does not mean it can just be equipped so the warning is just telling people to add the ability to equip either via a component, tag or custom predicate

> !!! warning "Nest Equitability"
>     You will either need to add the Slot Validation component to the nest or add the given item that the nest is made from to the given tag for the slot using the Tag Predicate for equipping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! warning "Nest Equipability"
    Make sure to remember the equipability of your nest. If your Nested Accessory needs to change its equipability dynamically, you might want to add the Slot Validation component to the nest. Alternatively, just using a tag or Tag Predicate is fine.
```

## Rendering

> Below is the various components to adjust certain rendering aspects of Accessories.

Reviewer: "below is" -> "below are"

> Below are the various components to adjust certain rendering aspects of Accessories.

Author: Yea, it is nicer

### Rendering Override

> Any ItemStack can have a component called `accessories:render_override` that allows for an item to have its render use the default variant if desired as it's funny... that's it

Author: I guess it is kind of vague but it means you can make the default renderer for stacks that have a existing renderer but its not clear by this.

```JSON
{
    "accessories:render_override": {
        "default_render_override": false,
        "armor_render_override": true
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|

> |`"default_render_override"`| A optional boolean value indicating if present that the default render should be used |

Reviewer: "a" -> "an"

> |`"armor_render_override"`| A optional boolean value indicating if present that the armor render should be used |

Reviewer: "a" -> "an"

> |`"armor_render_override"`| An optional boolean value indicating if present that the armor render should be used |

Author: idk as its just a true or false value tbh so like dose it matter and its based on the renderer if registered to the given accessory

> |`"armor_render_override"`| An optional boolean value indicating if present that the armor render should be used |

Reviewer 2: Cool, we don't need it then

### Rendering Transformations

> For any Accessory that use the Default renderer it is possible to use the provided Rendering Transforms component to adjust the positioning, rotation, and scale of the rendering to for instance wear a block as a hat or place a item on your arm. 

Reviewer: "use" -> "uses"

                "components": {
                    "accessories:attributes": {
                        "modifiers": [
                            {
                                "type": "minecraft:attack_speed",
                                "id": "example:increased_damage_speed",
                                "amount": 1,
                                "operation": "add_value",
                                "slot_name": "any",
                                "is_stackable": false,
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

| <div style="width:118px">Field</div> | Usage |
|--|--|
|`"accessories"`| A list of `ItemStack`s that have various components and will be used to get Accessory info from when equipping the nest |

!!! warning "Nest Equitability"
    You will either need to add the Slot Validation component to the nest or add the given item that the nest is made from to the given tag for the slot using the Tag Predicate for equipping

## Rendering

This section covers the various components you can use to adjust certain rendering aspects of Accessories.

### Rendering Override

> Any ItemStack can have a component called `accessories:render_override` that allows for an item either not have the default renderer or force an item to use the default renderer instead of its registered render for the funny if desired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any equippable ItemStack (or Accessory) can have a component called `accessories:render_override`, which allows you to force enable/disable the default renderer or the armor renderer.
```
